---
title: "Combining the Effects of Global Warming, Land Use Change and Dispersal Limitations to Predict the Future Distributions of East Asian Cerris Oaks (Quercus Section Cerris, Fagaceae) in China"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2022-2-paper-title-number-6
excerpt: '使用物种分布模型结合物种迁移和土地利用数据预测栎属重要树种的分布'
date: 2022-02-22
venue: 'February 22'
paperurl: 'https://doi.org/10.3390/f13030367'
citation: 'Chen YH, Li Y, Mao LF. 2022. Combining the Effects of Global Warming, Land Use Change and Dispersal Limitations to Predict the Future Distributions of East Asian Cerris Oaks (Quercus Section Cerris, Fagaceae) in China. Forests, 2022, 13: 367.'
---
Species shift their ranges in response to climate change (CC). However, they may not be able to track optimal conditions as soon as possible, due to limited dispersal ability or habitat fragmentation, caused by land use and land cover change (LULC). This study aimed to explore the combined impacts of CC, LULC and dispersal limitations on the future range dynamics of Quercus acutissima Carruth., Q. variabilis Blume and Q. chenii Nakai, three dominant Cerris oak tree species in warm-temperate and subtropical deciduous forests of China. We used the Maximum Entropy (Maxent) algorithm to predict the suitable habitats for the years 2050 and 2070, under three representative concentration pathways (RCPs). Habitat fragmentation patterns were examined to assess the influence of LULC. Two migration scenarios (full- and partial-migration) were compared to evaluate the effect of dispersal limitations. We found that annual precipitation (AP), minimum temperature in the coldest month (MTCM) and temperature seasonality (TS) play a key role in determining the present distributions of Q. chenii, while AP, MTCM and annual mean temperature (AMT) contribute the most to the distribution models of Q. variabilis and Q. acutissima. For all the three species, LULC will increase the level of habitat fragmentation and lead to the loss of core areas, while limited dispersal ability will restrict the accessibility of future potentially suitable habitats. Under the scenarios of CC and LULC, the suitable areas of Q. chenii will decrease sharply, while those of Q. variabilis in South China will become unsuitable. Our findings highlight the importance of considering dispersal ability, as well as land use and land cover change, for modeling species’ range shifts in the face of global warming. Our study also provides vital information for guiding the management of East Asian Cerris oaks in China; Q. chenii should be listed as a species requiring priority protection, and the threatened habitats of Q. variabilis should be protected to buffer the impacts of CC and LULC.

[Download paper here](http://academicpages.github.io/files/Forests2022.pdf)

Recommended citation: Chen YH, Li Y, Mao LF. 2022. Combining the Effects of Global Warming, Land Use Change and Dispersal Limitations to Predict the Future Distributions of East Asian Cerris Oaks (Quercus Section Cerris, Fagaceae) in China. <i>Forests<i>, 2022, 13: 367.